README.md, before:

# ZIF
zoomify ZIF (ZoomifyImageFormat) file format documentation and tools.

The ZIF file format is used by zoomify as a single-file zoomable image format.
A zif file represents a single image. It contains JPEG *tiles*, little square images that represent a part of the image at a given zoom level, as well as meta-information about how the tiles are organized. [More about the concept behind zoomify](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc645050%28VS.95%29.aspx).

![AN image and its tiles](http://www.zoomify.com/downloads/screenshots/tiledTiered.jpg)

# ZIF file format documentation
I have partially reverse-engineered the format. Here is what I found.

### Data types
All numbers are stored in [**little endian**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness) (the number `0xABCD` is sored as `0xCD 0xAB`).

Term         | Signification
-------------|---------------
long         | 8 bytes unsigned int (uint64)
int          | 4 bytes unsigned int (uint32)
short        | 2 bytes unsigned int (uint16)
pointer      | a *long* representing an offset in bytes from the beginning of the file

## Header

### Magic bytes
The first 16 bytes of the file are always
```
49 49 2B 00 08 00 00 00
```

### Metadata
Meta-data start at offset `0x8` in the file.
There is a set of metadata for every zoom level (tier).

#### Zoomlevel metadata
Each set of metadata starts with a long **pointer** to a long number representing the number of tags (single metadata) in the zoom level. Usually this is a pointer to the offset `n + 8`, where `n` is the offset in bytes of the beggining of the metadata set (so, most often `*n == n+8`). Then, the real metadata start right after the metadata count (at `*n + 8`, which is usually equal to `n + 16`).

Each tag is 20 bytes long.

Offset (from the start of the tag) | Length (in bytes) | Data
-----------------------------------|-------------------|------------------------------
0                                  | 2 (short)         | Magic number identifying the tag type
2                                  | 2                 | Unknown (but not null)
4                                  | 8  (long)         | **value 1**
12                                 | 8  (long)         | **value 2**

##### Tag types
Magic number in decimal | Magic bytes | Signification of **value 1** | Signification of **value 2**
-----|---|---|---
256  |`0x00 0x01`| ?                        | Image width at this zoomlevel
257  |`0x01 0x01`| ?                        | Image height at this zoomlevel
322  |`0x42 0x01`| ?                        | Tile width
323  |`0x43 0x01`| ?                        | Tile height
324  |`0x44 0x01`| Number of tiles          | Pointer to the *tile offsets index*
325  |`0x45 0x01`| Number of tiles          | Pointer to the *tile sizes index*

### Tile offsets index
Simple list of pointers (8 bytes file offsets) to the beginning of tiles. Each tile is a simple JPEG file.

### Tile sizes index
Simple list of *int*s indicating tile sizes (in bytes).

Commit message:

Add a note about a special case
Tag 325 (tile sizes index offset) has a special signification
when there are less than 3 tiles in the zoomlevel.

README.md, after:

# ZIF
zoomify ZIF (ZoomifyImageFormat) file format documentation and tools.

The ZIF file format is used by zoomify as a single-file zoomable image format.
A zif file represents a single image. It contains JPEG *tiles*, little square images that represent a part of the image at a given zoom level, as well as meta-information about how the tiles are organized. [More about the concept behind zoomify](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc645050%28VS.95%29.aspx).

![AN image and its tiles](http://www.zoomify.com/downloads/screenshots/tiledTiered.jpg)

# ZIF file format documentation
I have partially reverse-engineered the format. Here is what I found.

### Data types
All numbers are stored in [**little endian**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness) (the number `0xABCD` is sored as `0xCD 0xAB`).

Term         | Signification
-------------|---------------
long         | 8 bytes unsigned int (uint64)
int          | 4 bytes unsigned int (uint32)
short        | 2 bytes unsigned int (uint16)
pointer      | a *long* representing an offset in bytes from the beginning of the file

## Header

### Magic bytes
The first 16 bytes of the file are always
```
49 49 2B 00 08 00 00 00
```

### Metadata
Meta-data start at offset `0x8` in the file.
There is a set of metadata for every zoom level (tier).

#### Zoomlevel metadata
Each set of metadata starts with a long **pointer** to a long number representing the number of tags (single metadata) in the zoom level. Usually this is a pointer to the offset `n + 8`, where `n` is the offset in bytes of the beggining of the metadata set (so, most often `*n == n+8`). Then, the real metadata start right after the metadata count (at `*n + 8`, which is usually equal to `n + 16`).

Each tag is 20 bytes long.

Offset (from the start of the tag) | Length (in bytes) | Data
-----------------------------------|-------------------|------------------------------
0                                  | 2 (short)         | Magic number identifying the tag type
2                                  | 2                 | Unknown (but not null)
4                                  | 8  (long)         | **value 1**
12                                 | 8  (long)         | **value 2**

##### Tag types
Magic number in decimal | Magic bytes | Signification of **value 1** | Signification of **value 2**
-----|---|---|---
256  |`0x00 0x01`| ?                        | Image width at this zoomlevel
257  |`0x01 0x01`| ?                        | Image height at this zoomlevel
322  |`0x42 0x01`| ?                        | Tile width
323  |`0x43 0x01`| ?                        | Tile height
324  |`0x44 0x01`| Number of tiles          | Pointer to the **tile offsets index**
325  |`0x45 0x01`| Number of tiles          | Pointer to the **tile sizes index** (*see note below*)

#### Note about tag 325 (`0x45 0x01`)
For tag 325, if value1 is inferior to 3 (there are only 1 or 2 tiles in the tier), then **value2** is not a pointer to the tile sizes index, but is split is two int values, representing the JPEG tile sizes in bytes directly.

### Tile offsets index
Simple list of pointers (8 bytes file offsets) to the beginning of tiles. Each tile is a simple JPEG file.

### Tile sizes index
Simple list of *int*s indicating tile sizes (in bytes).
